 If I'm going to say anything declarative or opinionated in any medium of communication and platform --I want my desire to be clear and apparent-- to respect all walks of life so all participants engaged in that space don't feel attacked for their lived experience, intelligence, values, beliefs. And I'll likely be very wrong on some of my beliefs, and those assumptions I do have will likely betray that desire to find a way to contribute to spaces of safety in who all show up to the table. Just like any relationship and system. damage is inevitable. My commitment to repair is where I find peace. Not for correctness or accuracy, or winning, but to understand, and to be understood. Flaws in accuracy are a reflection in our holes in understanding, a symptom of our limits to map complex ideas to symbols we use to attempt to match the meaning, and then the rest of the system's ability to decode that message and map it to their lived experiences as an attempt to interpret meaning. so relax on the syntax of a point of view that is expressed to you, and attempt to understand them for what they are wanting to map to you, not for how poorly it maps to your understanding of reality. spend just a little more time perceiving before making up your mind what they mean. build bridges. don't let the first response of your brain to righteous indignation destroy a bridge to another person in this war of ideas when salvation and healing is at stake. what is it worth to die on the hill of truth (accuracy) when the cost was the souls of individuals, families, nations. neither accuracy or understanding should come at the loss of the other. both play their role in the fight for harmony and peace. accuracy is the syntax that is used to create systems that are better suited for operating in reality, understanding is recognizing the places that our current system doesn't meet the needs of the whole. and words aren't all we have to try and map our lived experiences and meaning and ideas to symbols others can have a better shot and decoding and mapping back to their lived experiences, and where needs aren't being met, the rest of the system must respond with resources and a shared interest in answering to that need. we will very likely get the encoding and decoding of meaning wrong. that inaccuracy is not the villain of all we believe. we do however have to be brave enough to put above our fragile egos (our ability to map meaning) with a little bit of vulnerability and a leap of faith to see the pain of someone else in the system (especially in the case that we (or an idea we believe) were the one who hurt them), and consider a better way. Use imagination, and intuition to find ways to build bridges and repair the system. I think one of the original ideas that led to me conceding my mormon world view to really honestly understand and validate someone else's needs whose ways were not like mine, was when joseph smith (who i'm now under the impression was actually a piece of shit) said "I would go to hell for Emma". Even if that man didn't mean it, and he was just saving face, this idea was valuable to me. The idea conveys a true altruistic willingness. Am I willing to do something like that if the salvation of another could be met? Sacrifice that doesn't earn me anything but maybe allows another to find peace in this life and the next? What if thats not ever actually an ask of us, but the willingness changes the shape of the soul. Something my dad asked me when I was just old enough to start thinking about stuff of the soul was "why do you want to be a good person. You should consider what motivates you to do and be good. Is it because of God? Or something else?" The idea of doing something good and not for my eternal benefit was naturally linked with good for others, the altruistic idea. And that idea of giving up salvation, if it was the right thing to do. How could giving up salvation ever actually be the right thing to do? there would never even be a situation that would put that on the line and the "right" thing to do would end up being something that compromises my soul though. right? well thats true. But when I thought about my motives I wondered, do I do the right thing because of god? and because I was told to, to avoid punishment and damnation? or is there a better reason to do good? what if that better reason is contingent on sacrifice. a sacrifice of our ego. this is the death of narcisism, vanity, and a place of curiosity, a place of suspending judgement, a place that allows you to detach from your own lived experiences and fully embrace another, just to see it and feel it (don't worry, you don't become it, but it does change the shape of your soul again). And then you can really love. willing to take leaps of faith to see others as they are, be seen as you are, the good, the flawed, and the ugly, and feel whole. If truth is truth regardless of whether or not I believe it, then I am not above others for having a take on reality that is true. I am inconsequential to the power and reality of god and his love. It just is. right? well it is if the god I was raised to believe in is real. And what fear do I have of ideas that threaten the integrity of a truth? It would mean that the truth would hold up against the test of time and that dangerous idea would be discovered for its flaw. making dangerous ideas crumble and fall into dust. And that would be the case if its true, that joseph smith saw god, and the book of mormon was an authentic record of a people who really did witness Christ as well in the americas. it wouldn't matter to the truth how i felt about it and about its contenders, because the teachings and history, would hold up. So I became willing to hear and consider the great contenders of the truth I was raised by. With a desire to hold it up against the cornerstone of my belief. which one would crumble? in a state of being where I was prepared to accept the possibility that the corner stone of my faith could crumble